

  Learning Objectives

After completing this unit, you’ll be able to:

  Identify uses for record-triggered flows.
  Give examples of the three types of flow triggers.
  Based on business requirements, select the best options for your record-triggered flow.


  Before You Start

This module is designed for intermediate Salesforce admins who are familiar with basic Salesforce customization features and have some experience using basic flows. If you're not there yet, that’s OK. Before you begin this badge, we recommend that you complete the Flow Basics module. In that badge, you learn when and how to use flows to automate business processes.

  Flow Types

There are three general types of flows.

  
    
      
        Flow Type
        Launched By
        Description
      
    
    
      
        
          Screen Flow
        
        
          
            Quick action
            Lightning page
            Experience Cloud site, and more
          
        
        
          Screen Flows provide a UI that guides users through a business process.
        
      
      
        
          Autolaunched Flow
        
        
          
            Another flow
            Apex code
            REST API
          
        
        
          Autolaunched Flows automate business processes that have no UI. They have no trigger and they run in the background.
        
      
      
        
          Triggered Flow
        
        
          
            Time
            Data change
            Platform event
          
        
        
          Triggered Flows are autolaunched by a trigger you specify. They run in the background.
        
      
    
  


  Tools

You may have used Workflow Rules or Process Builder to create a triggered process. Now Flow Builder is the optimal tool. Why? It combines the capabilities of Workflow Rules and Process Builder in a single point-and-click tool. Use Flow Builder to automate if/then business processes and see a graphical representation of your automation as you build it.&nbsp;
Flow Builder provides debugging, testing, and integration with functions across the Salesforce Platform. It now combines the capabilities of Workflow Rules and Process Builder with the power of Flow for a single no-code automation home. And if that’s not enough to convince you, a record-triggered flow can update a Salesforce record 10 times faster than a record-change process built with Process Builder!

  Triggered Flows

This module focuses on triggered flows. A triggered flow consists of a trigger, at least one criterion, and at least one action.&nbsp;

  The trigger identifies what launches the flow. You can trigger a flow on a set schedule or when a specific type of record change occurs.
  Criteria define the specifics of the trigger. The criteria for a schedule trigger are date and time. The criteria for a record change trigger are the object and specific changes to field values.
  The action determines what the flow does.


  Trigger Types

There are three types of triggers.

  
    
      
        Trigger Type
        When It Runs
        How to Use It
      
    
    
      
        
          Schedule
        
        
          At a time and frequency you specify
        
        
          Running nightly batch jobs
        
      
      
        
          Platform Event
        
        
          When a particular platform event message is received
        
        
          Subscribing to events
        
      
      
        
          Record
        
        
          When a record is created, updated, or deleted
        
        
          Updating records and sending notifications
        
      
    
  


  Record-Triggered Flows

A record-triggered flow is the most commonly used automation. It’s the best way to interact with the records in your org. Simply put, the job of a record-triggered flow is, “If something happens, then do something else.”
For record-triggered flows, the trigger determines which object the flow acts on and when it runs.

  Only when a record is created
  Anytime a record is updated
  Anytime a record is created or updated
  Only when a record is deleted

Create a record-triggered flow to update another record, send a notification, initiate a process, or maintain data consistency. To avoid conflicts and improve performance, you can fine tune the timing of your automation using options within the record-triggered flow.
Because the flow is triggered when a record has been changed, that change is already on its way to the database. This is often called a transaction, and is referred to as the initial triggering transaction.

  
    
      
        Option
        When It Runs
        How to Use It&nbsp;
      
    
    
      
        
          Fast Field Update
        
        
          During the record update that triggered the flow and before that update is saved.
        
        
          Updating the record that triggered the transaction
          Benefit: Optimal performance because it’s limited to updating the triggering record
        
      
      
        
          Related Records and Actions&nbsp;
        
        
          During the record update that triggered the flow and after that update is saved.
        
        
          
            Creating, updating, or deleting other records
            Calling subflows
            Calling actions, such as send email alert or post to Chatter
          
          Benefit: Automating common processes triggered by record changes
        
      
      
        
          Run Asynchronously
        
        
          Immediately after the record update that triggered the flow is complete.&nbsp;
        
        
          Executing more advanced scenarios like&nbsp;sending requests to external systems or performing other longer running processes
          Benefit: Avoids slowing down or blocking the record update that triggered the flow
        
      
      
        
          Scheduled Paths
        
        
          In the future, after the trigger has fired, based on dates and times.
        
        
          Scheduling reminders or follow-ups based on dates in the record that triggered the flow, such as Close Date
          Benefit: Waits a specified amount of time between the trigger firing and the automation running
        
      
    
  

Next you learn how to build a record-triggered flow!

  Resources


  Salesforce Architects: Record-Triggered Automation
  Developer Guide:&nbsp;Triggers and Order of Execution

