Build an Approval Process
Learning Objectives
After completing this unit, you’ll be able to:

Set up an approval process that emails the initial approvers.
Set up an approval process that allows users to approve or reject opportunity records.
Note
Accessibility
This unit requires some additional instructions for screen reader users. To access a detailed screen reader version of this unit, click the link below:

Open Trailhead screen reader instructions.

Create an Email Template
First create your email template to notify the record owner’s manager that an opportunity has been discounted more than 40%.

From Setup, enter Templates in the Quick Find box, and then select Classic Email Templates.
Click New Template.
Select Text as the template type, and click Next.
Configure the email template.
Field	Value
Folder	Unfiled Public Classic Email Templates
Available for Use	Selected
Email Template Name	Approve Opportunity Discount
Encoding	General US & Western Europe
Subject	Please approve this discounted opportunity
Email Body	{!User.Manager}, The {!Opportunity.Name} has been discounted. Please approve this discount. Thank you.
Including the merge field {!Opportunity.Name} helps the approver by providing a link to the opportunity record. This allows them to review the record before responding to the request.
Click Save.
Add Custom Fields
Now let’s create custom fields so that we can track the discount percentage and approval status for each opportunity.

From Setup, enter Object Manager in the Quick Find box, and then select Object Manager.
Click Opportunity.
Select Fields & Relationships and click New.
In the Data Type column, select Percent and then click Next.
Add a Percent field with these values.
Field	Value
Field Label	Discount Percent
Length	Leave default
Decimal Places	Leave default
Required	Selected
Click Next.
Click Next.
Click Save & New.
In the Data Type column, select Picklist and then click Next.
Add a Picklist field with these values.
Field	Value
Field Label	Discount Percent Status
Values	Enter values, one value per line
Picklist Values	Approved
Not Approved
Click Next.
Click Next.
Click Save.
Great! You’ve created an email template to notify approvers and you’ve set up an object with the required fields to support your approval process.

Create an Approval Process
Now that our org is ready, let’s create the approval process.

From Setup, enter Approval in the Quick Find box, and then select Approval Processes.
In Manage Approval Processes For, select Opportunity.
Click Create New Approval Process | Use Jump Start Wizard. The Jump Start Wizard helps you create a simple approval process by making some decisions for you.
Configure the approval process.
Field	Value
Name	Approve Opportunity Discount
Approval Assignment Email Template	Approve Opportunity Discount
Specify Entry Criteria	Opportunity: Discount Percent greater than 0.4
Select Approver	Let the submitter choose the approver manually
Save the approval process.
Click View Approval Process Detail Page.
Under Final Approval Actions, click Add New | Field Update, and configure it with these values.
Field	Value
Name	Approved
Field to Update	Discount Percent Status
A Specific value	Approved
Click Save.
Under Final Rejection Actions, click Add New | Field Update, and configure it with these values.
Field	Value
Name	Not Approved
Field to Update	Discount Percent Status
A Specific value	Not Approved
Click Save.
Great job! To start evaluating discounted opportunities, simply activate the approval process.

Make Sure That Records Are Submitted
You've done a bunch of work to automate what happens when a record gets submitted for approval. Now, when users click Submit for Approval on an opportunity, it goes through your approval process. But what if—the horror—users forget to click the button?

Enter Flow Builder. One of the available actions in the Action element is Submit for Approval, which means you can build a flow that automatically submits a record for approval. And that means your users don’t have to remember to submit opportunities for approval. For example, in a flow that runs when an opportunity is created or edited:

Add a Decision element that checks whether Discount Percent is greater than 0.4.
Add an Action element, set to Submit for Approval, that submits the opportunity for approval.